Copyright 1999-2000 Peter P. Neilley and UCAR.  All Rights Reserved.

README file for program radmap.


1. Introduction.  

  The program radmap is designed to plot NIDS data on geographic map
  backgrounds along with station ids markers to GIF files.  The program
  can plot two types of NIDS files, the standard NIDS-product base 
  reflectivity and velocity files (level-3 files?), as well as composited/
  moasiced raster image files (such as the WSI NOWRAD files).  

  The program is based on the GEMPAK program GPMAP, but differs in two
  important ways:

    a)  The program has been written in a very specific way, removing most
        of the general features of GPMAP, to concentrate solely on plotting
        radar data.  This was done to make to program as efficient as 
        possible so as to plot a large number of NIDS images in real-time.
        Many things, such as color tables and image size, are hard-wired into the 
        code for efficiency.  Numerous GEMPAK subroutines were modified to also 
        support the efficiency effort. On a Sun-SPARC 250Mhz processor, under Solaris 
        V2.7, NIDS files can be plotted to GIF files in about 0.8 secs each.

    b)  Unlike "standard" GEMPAK programs, the device driver (GDP in this case)
        is built (linked) directly into the program.  This program plots
        only to the GDP device (a GIF driver) and nothing else.


   Although many of the standard GEMPAK libraries and include files are needed
   for compiling and linking this program, the GEMPAK "environment" is not
   needed to run it.  That is, once the program is built, it can be run 
   on any machine (with similar OS) whether or not GEMPAK is available on that
   machine as long as the necessary supporting files (see below) are in
   the working directory that the program is run from.


2. Usage:

   The program can make several different types of plots.  These are the types
   of plots that NCAR needs in order to support its real-time and archived
   NIDS image viewer.  The plot types are (all plots are GIFs @ 768x576 resolution,
   unless otherwise stated):

       Site_REF, Site_VEL:  Single NIDS site plots of either Base Reflectivity
                            or velocity.  The entire range of data is plotted
                            and a color scale added to the site.  A background
                            county map is drawn in dark green, and state boundaries
                            are drawn in white.  METAR site IDS are overlayed as well.


       National, Regional   These are plots of the moasic NIDS Reflectivity data.  The 
                            area to be plotted is specified on the command line.  Both
                            get color scales plotted, and state outlines in with.
                            Regional plots also get county lines (dark green) and
                            METAR site ids.

       Clickable            This is almost identical to the National moasic plot, but
                            NIDS site IDS are added to the plot.  The plot is also
                            a bit smaller (640x380).  This plot is used on NCAR's NIDS
                            home page enabling the user to click on the National
                            Moasic plot and bring up specific NIDS sites images/loops.

       Thumbnail            Similar to National, Regional or Site_REF, but a very small
                            image (thumbnail, 61x46)  is produced.   No color bar,
                            title, site IDS, or county maps are drawn.

       Missing              This is just a blank base map with color bar and METAR ids 
                            plotted in the same geometry as the Site_VEL/Site_REF maps.  
                            These blank maps are plotted just once, set aside, and
                            inserted into a NIDS image loop whenever a velocity NIDS
                            file is missing that corresponds to a specific reflectivity 
                            file.


    The actual command line usage of the program is:

       radmap -(n|r|s|v|t|m|c) nids_file gif_file title_string [plot_area]

    where
          -n: Make a national plot
          -r: Make a regional plot
          -s: Make a single-site reflectivity plot
          -v: Make a single-site velocity plot
          -t: Make a thumbnail plot
          -m: Make a missing plot
          -c: Make a clickable plot.
                            
                 
          nids_file:  Path to the raw NIDS (or moasic raster) file
          gif_file:   Path to the output gif file.  If the file already exists, it is overwritten.
          title_string: String to put at the bottom of the plot as the plot title.
          plot_area:  For (-n,-r,-t,-c only).  The plot area in the form (lat_ll, lon_ll, lat_ur, lon_ur)
                      defining the lower-left and upper-right coordinates (e.g. 39.6;-126.1;49.8;-109.9).
                      When making a thumbnail (-t) of a single-site data, specify plot_area as the
                      phrase "DSET".


     A sucessful plot of the data will exit with a status code of 0.  Otherwise the
     exit status code is non-zero.


    There are a number of files that need to be in the default (current working) directory
    that the program is run in.  These are:

	   hicnus.nws  ! County boundaries map file
	   histus.nws  ! State boundaries map file
	   mepowo.gsf  !Map file
	   loconh.gsf  !Map file
	   hiponw.cia  !Map file

	   nidprd.tbl	   !NIDS format info
	   geog.tbl	   !GAREA [plot_area] definitions; e.g., MD or US (optional)
	   cities.rad	   !RADMAP specific cities table
	   gempak_nids.tbl !NIDS site file for overlaying NIDS ids (only for "clickable" plots).

	   ucar_logo.gif   !Logo placed in lower right corner of site, national and regional plots.
                           !Replace with any GIF logo desired or delete the file.  


    Although some color make files are in the distribution, colors are actually hard-coded in.
    

3. Compiling.

    The program has only been built and used under Solaris 2.x operating systems.  Since the
    code is heavily based on GEMPAK, compiling under other OS's supported by GEMPAK should
    be straight forward.


    Here are some general instructions/guidelines for installing locally.

 
       1. Install GEMPAK V5.4 or later.
      
       2. A Makefile in not included.  Rather a c-shell script (Make.radmap) is included that
          sort of looks like a Makefile.  Edit this file and change it according to the
          directions there.

       3. Although I'm not sure if this step is necessary, all of the files that are in
          the /radmap and /gdp.ncar subdirectories that are named GEMINC:* or GEMPRM* shculd
          be replaced with the files in your GEMPAK directories.  Copy the files something
          like this (assuming you are in the destination [/radmap or /gdp.ncar] subdirectory) :
         
             $GEMPAKHOME/include/ADBUFF.CMN GEMINC:ADBUFF.CMN
 
          etc. for each file.  I'm pretty sure there are some OS specific stuff that gets
          put in these files when GEMPAK is installed, but not 100% sure.  

       4. Run the build script Make.radmap from the /radmap directory.

       5. Result is a compiled program radmap in the /radmap directory.

